Back: EnumeratedTypes  Next: CreatingYourOwnFieldTypes

You may encounter times when you need to manage Lists of nested beans. By default, WWB displays Lists in an editable table. Let's look at an example: com.googlecode.wicketwebbeans.examples.tables.TableBeanPage:

Embed:com.googlecode.wicketwebbeans.examples.tables.TableBeanPage

This page references two beans com.googlecode.wicketwebbeans.examples.tables.Invoice and com.googlecode.wicketwebbeans.examples.tables.InvoiceLine - the typical invoice pattern. If you look at !InvoiceLine, you'll see that it uses a couple of features we talked about previously: enums and !PropertyChangeEvents. The enum is for the itemCode and the !PropertyChangeEvents cause the total to be updated when either the quantity or cost change.  

<verbatim>
	# Table Bean Example
	Invoice {
		props: invoiceNumber, invoiceDate, EMPTY, customerName, 
			shipToAddress{colspan: 3},
			action.addLine{colspan: 3},
			lines{colspan: 3};
	}
	
	InvoiceLine {
		props: action.removeLine{labelImage: "remove.gif"},
			quantity, itemCode, cost, total; 
	}
	
	Address {
		props: address1{colspan: 3}, address2{colspan: 3}, city, state, zip;
	}
</verbatim>

You'll note a couple of new things here. First, the pseudo-property "EMPTY". In the !BeanGridPanel (the default layout for !BeanForm), EMPTY consumes a blank cell in the grid. Second, the "action.removeLine" action specifies a "labelImage" parameter. This allows you to display an image in place of a text label. Also note that Invoice has an addLine action that will add a line to the invoice. !InvoiceLine has a removeLine action that will remove a line from the table. 

When you bring up the page, it will look something like:

WWB:/doc/wiki/images/TableBeanScreenshot.png

Of course, you could throw the lines in a separate tab to clean up the page a bit. Note that clicking "Add Line" adds a new line to the table. Clicking the trash can icon on one of the lines will remove the corresponding line. 

The screenshot also shows the Invoice Date field with a calendar pop-up displayed. WWB displays properties of java.util.Date (date/time), java.sql.Date (date only), java.sql.Time (time only), java.sql.Timestamp (date/time), and java.util.Calendar (date/time with timezone) in a field with a pop-up calendar button.  

Back: EnumeratedTypes  Next: CreatingYourOwnFieldTypes

